#summary Libmv study

= What I find difficult when starting with Libmv =

 * Documentation is hard to find. Simple examples would be very helpful!
 * Basic objects like cameras are implemented but not used in SfM functions.
 * Compilation time is really (_really_) long! This is why I take a subset of functions for now.
 * I don't know if it's Visual studio related, but after creating project files using CMake, I have a lot of projects (approx. 70!).
 * Kernel version vs standard functions vs functions interface for kernel... Which one are the best?
 * Finding related functions is not easy (no commune namespace/class for epipolar functions, triangulation, etc...)
 * Functions don't take cameras as input but low levels information (advantages/disadvantages)
{{{
void RelativeCameraMotion(const Mat3 &R1, const Vec3 &t1,
                          const Mat3 &R2, const Vec3 &t2,
                          Mat3 *R, Vec3 *t);
}}}
instead of this better version:
{{{
void RelativeCameraMotion(const Camera &c1,
                          const Camera &c2,
                          Camera *outPosition);
}}}
 * Could not find easy ways to use Levenberg-Marquardt method for fundamental estimation ([http://sist.sysu.edu.cn/~chenpei/papers/IETCV-10.pdf for example this method]). Maybe add some explanation about needed parameters (or bigger examples than in tests cases)
 * Bundle wrapper make a strong assumption: all the points are assumed to be observed in all images. Is this a limitation of SSBA? Maybe use Lourakis' sba?
 * SixPointReconstruction needs an other robust processor (two_view_kernel can't work ;). Only two view robust estimation seems to be implemented (or can't find robust version of SixPointReconstruction).
 * vector class with aligned allocator [http://eigen.tuxfamily.org/dox/TopicStlContainers.html#vector_spec can be done like this]
 * *Can't find a robust N-Views triangulation function.*
 * *Can't find a robust 5 points relative motion estimator.*